In the last lecture we added this background image and again learned something about flex box,
now let's add a custom button.
So for that, I'll go to the UI component and there, I'll add a button but actually I want to add a button that
also has an outline and a background color on iOS because I think if we just have some blue text here,
that might be hard to see,
I like the styling of the Android version and I want to have a comparable styling here on iOS.
So for that reason, I'm going to create my button here
as a button with background, of course you can pick a different name, ButtonWithBackground.js
will be inside there and there,
well you know it,
we import react from react,
we'll then also later import something from react native, here I'll name this button with background and simply
have a function that receives props and returns some jsx and I'll export this as the default.
Now what do we need to import from react native?
So let's first of all add the general import statement from react native and what I want to import
here is touchable and I want to use touchable opacity for now,
later I also want to support the preferred mode for Android, so touchable or let's maybe use touchable
highlight,
let's see how that looks like
and I want to import a text, the text of our button
and then also a view so that we have something to style because in a text for example, we can't set a border
or anything like that,
so we'll use a view for this.
So our outermost component is touchable highlight, so that we can register touch events,
inside there we have a view to style it because we can't style touchable highlight or the text in the
way we want
and then inside there, we'll have the actual button caption
so our text. I will also import one more thing from react native and that is the stylesheet of course because here,
I will now create styles, stylesheet create and create my custom button styling,
so here, I'll name this button and we can then play around with that and set the styling we want.
Now on the text here, I actually want to output props children so that I can use my button differently
than the default button on react, on the view, I'll set the style equal to styles button,
that's why we added the view, to be able to do some styling and on touchable highlight,
I'll add onPress and there I basically want to trigger some property or be able to execute some method
which we receive through some property,
let's name it onPress here so that we get to use our button to the outside like a built-in button.
So with that, let's just give it some styling shall we,
let's add some padding for example of 10 maybe and some slight margin so that the button never sits
directly on the edge of something else
and let's also say we want to have a background color but that should be settable from outside,
so I'll actually wrap my styles here again in an array and I will also pass some styles from outside. So I
expect to get props
but here I'll add an inline javascript object where I'll set background color to and I get props color so that
we can set a color prop to actually style the background color. With that let's use this button with background
and let's have a look at how it looks like,
so in auth component, I actually will add an import at the top,
button with background from
and now let's again go to the components folder, the UI folder there,
let's import our button with background component.
Now let's use the button with background where we previously used the button,
this time however with some text between the opening and closing tag because this is how we set up
our own button.
So here I'll set
switch to login and then here on that button,
I'll set submit as attached, text. Now if we were to test this, it wouldn't look like much because we need
to set color, remember?
So let's set color to blue maybe, we can pass anything which is assignable to background color here as
a value
and this would now be the button, not as pretty as the build
in one. Let's maybe use some hex code,
here's one I prepared,
it's #29aaf4, let's save this, this looks nicer in my opinion.
Let's now also use that on our top button,
now it's looking better,
let's apply some
other styling to our button with background though,
let's also give it a border radius of 5 maybe,
so we've got some round corners here and let's give it a border width of one and a border color
of black maybe.
Now we got our button here but clicking on it doesn't do anything,
well let's just go back to auth.js and hook up the onPress handler here, on the switch to login button,
just add a quick inline function here where I print hello in an alert and now you see you get the
feedback because now we're handling the press. The highlight style doesn't really look nice though,
so let's go back to button with background and exchange touchable highlight with touchable opacity and
again, we'll add some special look for Android later.
So now with that,
we got this nicer look
when we click the button. And with that, we added our own custom button that looks quite decent in my
opinion
and by the way touchable opacity works where I apply some styling even without an onPress listener
but let's now add such an onPress listener to again navigate away and call login handler here
once we click it.
Now we got the code in place already so
all we need to do is add onPress and hook it up to this login handler, restructure the code to make
it a bit easier to read
and with that, let's go back to our application and now we can press submit to move on.
So that's all nice,
let's now see what else in this application we want to style.